agrest-docs/agrest-workflow/src/docs/asciidoc/_agrest-workflow/design-first-approach/defining-api.adoc, before:

=== Defining the API

AgREST provides `AgServerCodegen` and a set of custom mustache templates to generate API implementation
based on `OpenAPI 3.0` specification.

There is outlined the top-down workflow of creating API:

==== 1. Start with domain models
Create `my-bookstore-api.yaml` file to define your API.
Add general information with regards of your API:
[source, yaml]
----
openapi: 3.0.0
servers:
  - url: 'http://127.0.0.1/v1'
info:
  title: AgREST based API of MyBookstore
  description: An API for interacting with the MyBookstore backend server
  version: v1
----

Then add definition of your models. You can ether specify existing Java-DB mapping classes (based on `CayenneDataObject` for example)
or generate POJO models  by maven plugin.

For further information, please refer to <<Configure and run the API generation>> section.

But, for both cases you have to define models in `.yaml` file:

[source, yaml]
----
tags:
  - name: BookCategory
    description: |
      This model represents BookCategory type and is used to retrieve, create and update BookCategory information.

components:
  schemas:
    BookCategory:
      type: object
      properties:
       id:
         type: string
         description: Unique ID of BookCategory
         example: 1
       name:
         type: string
         description: BookCategory name
         example: Science Fiction
       description:
         type: string
         description: Description of BookCategory
         example: Science fiction (often shortened to Sci-Fi or SF) is a genre of speculative fiction, typically dealing with imaginative concepts such as advanced science and technology, spaceflight, time travel, and extraterrestrial life.
----

==== 2. Attach AgREST protocol definition
The AgREST protocol file <<protocol>> contains definition of all <<Control Parameters>>.
Just place this `protocol.yaml` in the catalog were other your main `my-bookstore-api.yaml` file is located.

==== 3. Define resources
Add REST API resource definition to your `my-bookstore-api.yaml` file.
Pay attention that AgREST protocol parameters are defined as references.
[source, yaml]
----
paths:
 /bookcategories:
    get:
      summary: Get list of all BookCategories
      operationId: getAll
      tags:
        - BookCategory
      parameters:
        - $ref: '../resources/protocol.yaml#/components/queryParams/Limit'
        - $ref: '../resources/protocol.yaml#/components/queryParams/Start'
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Success response.
          schema:
            type: array
            items:
              $ref: '#/components/schemas/BookCategory’
        default:
          description: Unexpected error

 /bookcategories/{id}:
    get:
      description: Returns a particular BookCategory
      operationId: getOne
      tags:
        - BookCategory
      parameters:
        - name: id
          in: path
          description: ID of BookCategory to fetch
          required: true
          schema:
            type: integer
            format: int32
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Success responce
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: '#/components/schemas/BookCategory'
          description: Unexpected error
----

==== 4. Run build-time API generation
To generate AgREST based API is used special maven plugin that should be configured
in accordance with your `.yaml` files location <<inputSpec>>, packages <<apiPackage>>, output catalog <<output>>, etc.

`mvn clean install` runs generation of API.

For more details, please refer to <<Configure and run the API generation>> section

==== 5. Validate the API implementation
After successful finishing of generation `BookCategoryResource.java` could be found in the output catalog.
This class has the ready to use implementation (not a stub) of all methods defined `.yaml` file.

[source, Java]
----
@Path("/")
public class BookCategoryResource {

    @Context
    private Configuration config;

    @GET
    @Path("/v1/bookcategory")
    @Produces({ "application/json" })
    public DataResponse<BookCategory> getAll(@QueryParam("limit") Limit limit, @QueryParam("start") Start start) {

        AgRequest agRequest = AgRequest.builder()
                .limit(limit)
                .start(start)
                .build();

        return Ag.select(BookCategory.class, config)
                 .request(agRequest)
                 .get();
    }

    @GET
    @Path("/v1/bookcategory/{id}")
    @Produces({ "application/json" })
    public DataResponse<BookCategory> getOne(@PathParam("id") Integer id) {

        AgRequest agRequest = AgRequest.builder()
                .build();

        return Ag.select(BookCategory.class, config)
                 .byId(id)
                 .request(agRequest)
                 .get();
    }
}
----

If you configure maven plugin to generate models <<generateModels>>, the POJO `BookCategory.java` will be generated.

[source, Java]
----
public class BookCategory   {

    private Integer id = null;
    private String name = null;
    private String description = null;

/******************* id *******************/
   /**
     * Unique ID of BookCategory
     * @return id
     **/
    @AgAttribute
    @ApiModelProperty(example = "1", value = "Unique ID of BookCategory")
    public Integer getId() {
        return id;
    }

...

/******************* name *******************/
    /**
     * BookCategory name
     * @return name
     **/
    @AgAttribute
    @ApiModelProperty(example = "Science Fiction", value = "BookCategory name")
    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

...

}
----

Commit message:

#333 Updated documents regarding simple-app and design-first-approach

agrest-docs/agrest-workflow/src/docs/asciidoc/_agrest-workflow/design-first-approach/defining-api.adoc, after:

=== Defining the API

AgREST provides `AgServerCodegen` and a set of custom mustache templates to generate API implementation
based on `OpenAPI 3.0` specification.

There is outlined the top-down workflow of creating API:

==== Prerequisites
Setup and build an application example from previous chapter <<Create a Simple `AgREST` App>>.
Then remove `CategoryResource.java` we have created manually. All our API resources will be generated
from `.yaml` definition according to the Design-First approach.

==== 1. Start with domain models
Create `bookstore-api.yaml` file to define your API and put it in the `src/main/java/resources` folder.
Add a general information with regards of your API:
[source, yaml]
----
openapi: 3.0.0
servers:
  - url: 'http://127.0.0.1/v1'
info:
  title: AgREST based API of Bookstore
  description: An API for interacting with the Bookstore backend server
  version: v1
----

Then add definition of your models. You can ether specify existing Java-DB mapping classes
(based on `CayenneDataObject` e.g. our `Category` and `Book`) or generate simple POJO models  by maven plugin.

For further information, please refer to <<Configure and run the API generation>> section.

But, for both cases you have to define models in `.yaml` file:

[source, yaml]
----
tags:
  - name: Category
    description: |
      This model represents a Category type and is used to retrieve, create and update a book Category information.

components:
  schemas:
    BookCategory:
      type: object
      properties:
       id:
         type: string
         description: Unique ID of Category
         example: 1
       name:
         type: string
         description: Book Category name
         example: Science Fiction
       description:
         type: string
         description: Description of Category
         example: Science fiction (often shortened to Sci-Fi or SF) is a genre of speculative fiction, typically dealing with imaginative concepts such as advanced science and technology, spaceflight, time travel, and extraterrestrial life.
----

==== 2. Attach AgREST protocol definition
The AgREST protocol file <<protocol>> contains definition of all <<Control Parameters>>.
Just place this `protocol.yaml` in the catalog were other your main `bookstore-api.yaml` file is located (e.g. 'src/main/java/resources').

==== 3. Define resources
Add REST API resource definition to your `bookstore-api.yaml` file.
Pay attention that AgREST protocol parameters are defined as references.
[source, yaml]
----
paths:
paths:
 /categories:
    get:
      summary: Get list of all Book Categories
      operationId: getAll
      tags:
        - Category
      parameters:
        - $ref: '../resources/protocol.yaml#/components/queryParams/Limit'
        - $ref: '../resources/protocol.yaml#/components/queryParams/Start'
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Success response.
          schema:
            type: array
            items:
              $ref: '#/components/schemas/Category'
        default:
          description: Unexpected error

 /categories/{id}:
    get:
      description: Returns a particular Book Category
      operationId: getOne
      tags:
        - Category
      parameters:
        - name: id
          in: path
          description: ID of Category to fetch
          required: true
          schema:
            type: integer
            format: int32
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Success responce
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: '#/components/schemas/Category'
          description: Unexpected error
----

==== 4. Run build-time API generation
To generate AgREST based API is used special maven plugin that should be configured
in accordance with your `.yaml` files location <<inputSpec>>, packages <<apiPackage>>, output catalog <<output>>, etc.

`mvn clean install` runs generation of API.

For more details, please refer to <<Configure and run the API generation>> section

==== 5. Validate the API implementation
After successful finishing of generation `BookCategoryResource.java` could be found in the output catalog.
This class has the ready to use implementation (not a stub) of all methods defined `.yaml` file.

[source, Java]
----
@Path("/")
public class BookCategoryResource {

    @Context
    private Configuration config;

    @GET
    @Path("/v1/bookcategory")
    @Produces({ "application/json" })
    public DataResponse<BookCategory> getAll(@QueryParam("limit") Limit limit, @QueryParam("start") Start start) {

        AgRequest agRequest = AgRequest.builder()
                .limit(limit)
                .start(start)
                .build();

        return Ag.select(BookCategory.class, config)
                 .request(agRequest)
                 .get();
    }

    @GET
    @Path("/v1/bookcategory/{id}")
    @Produces({ "application/json" })
    public DataResponse<BookCategory> getOne(@PathParam("id") Integer id) {

        AgRequest agRequest = AgRequest.builder()
                .build();

        return Ag.select(BookCategory.class, config)
                 .byId(id)
                 .request(agRequest)
                 .get();
    }
}
----

If you configure maven plugin to generate models <<generateModels>>, the POJO `BookCategory.java` will be generated.

[source, Java]
----
public class BookCategory   {

    private Integer id = null;
    private String name = null;
    private String description = null;

/******************* id *******************/
   /**
     * Unique ID of BookCategory
     * @return id
     **/
    @AgAttribute
    @ApiModelProperty(example = "1", value = "Unique ID of BookCategory")
    public Integer getId() {
        return id;
    }

...

/******************* name *******************/
    /**
     * BookCategory name
     * @return name
     **/
    @AgAttribute
    @ApiModelProperty(example = "Science Fiction", value = "BookCategory name")
    public String getName() {
        return name;
    }

...

}
----
